# nflpred2
Made Josiah Domercant. Data sourced from nflverse. These predictions use an xgboost model trained on data from all weekly QB and team stats in games played between 2016 and 2025, factoring in basic stats, advanced stats, rolling averages, and more. As player performances are highly variable from week to week, these models opt for quantile regression and poisson regression, rather than simple linear regression to provide a reliable range of likely outcomes. There are six models for passing yards, passing touchdowns, rushing yards, rushing touchdowns, interceptions, and fumbles lost. Each begins with 250+ features in their first pass, then are pruned to use only the most important drivers of each respective stat. Predictions are made for the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles to give a range of possible outcomes rather than a single point estimate. This can be interpreted as the middle 50% range of outcomes the model predicts the player is likely to fall into; between a somewhat pessimistic and somewhat optimistic prediction. Stats with smaller and less variable distributions that tend to be either 0, 1, 2, 3.. (like interceptions and fumbles) utilize poisson regression to provide a sensible range. This app is built using Streamlit for an interactive web interface, and Plotly for the dynamic visualizations. All data and model results are stored in a cloud database for efficient querying and retrieval. Github Actions runs a script every Wednesday at 9:00 AM UTC to update the data and generate new predictions for the upcoming week.

The models were evaluated using Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and skill scores on testing data from previous seasons. Overall, the models median predictions performed slightly better in most stats than the naive estimate (player's current season average), and most weekly performances are captured in the range shown. The important features for each model can be observed in the 'Model Explainability' section of the app, and many of the key drivers for each stat are very intuitive. For simplicity and proof of concept, I only provided predictions for 10 NFL QBs with a large sample of games from this season, and of varying skill levels and playstyles, to display how these models perform, both over time and across different inputs. They tend to perform very well for the average statistical quarterback (ex. Caleb Williams), but tend to underperform for players putting up very strong seasons (ex. Matthew Stafford has 10+ more passing TDs on the season than any other QB, with multiple 3+ passing TD games, yet the model will rarely predict over 2 at its median level). However,for fantasy football purposes, this app allows the user to adjust to a model's high prediction if they have a more optimistic view of the player.
